#Lecture 3#

##Types##
There are two typing schemes that I want to introduce today, static and dynamic typing.

Dynamic and static typing are a lot like the difference between college and diffusing a bomb. In college you kind of figure things out along the way, things might change -that's okay- and everything just sort of works out in the end. If you do that with a bomb, you're going to have a bad time. With a bomb, you need to know exactly what you're doing before you touch it, and if one instruction is wrong, the entire thing blows up.

Dynamic typing is like college. The computer figures out what is happening as the program is going. Static typing is like diffusing a bomb where the computer needs to know exactly what everything is before proceeding. And this is all in reference to how to represent something.

So we know Ruby is a dynamically typed language right? When you do an assignment:

```
x = 5
```

We know that "x" is a number. But we never say something like:
```
x is a number. let x = 5
```
The above would be static typing. We tell the computer exactly what x should be, it's *type*, and what its value is. In some languages like C or C#, this is necessary. In C# you would have to do:

```
int x = 5;
```
So C# and C are statically typed languages. Before you hit that big go button, you need to tell the computer what it is. In Ruby, the computer *infers* what things are. And sometimes there are exceptions but for the most part, this is what happens. And some languages mix them. A Class is a type, a class is actually a complex type, so when we say:

```
x = Car.new
```
We ARE giving "x" a type. A class type. But that is because it is an object. So in the cases of objects we need types, with *atomic* types such as numbers and strings and arrays, we don't.

##Kinds of Types##
1. Integer: 5
2. Double: 5.27
3. Array: [2,5,223]
4. String: "hello"
5. Boolean: True, False

And depending on the language you'll have different kinds of types.

##Back to Rails##

So last time we did some stuff with routes. We saw that we needed three things, a model, a view and a controller.

We didn't really go over any of these at all, so lets do that finally:

**Controller:** a function that runs a piece of code. A function is an action is a definition. They are all the same thing. However if you say "action" you're probably referring to something that returns a view. They are however, defined the same.

**Model:** An object with properties. This is just a class like any other. However, the difference is that we have rails generate the class representation for the database rather than just creating it ourselves.

**View:** The HTML/CSS generated by the controller

So when we ask for the home page, Rails finds the controller that will give us back the view for the home page. Looking at the console we can see that the web page returned a default page. We want to get to a point where we can define our own pages.

We need three things for this: a controller, a view, and a route. A route tells Rails where to find the controller and the view.

Today we will be generating models. There is a console. It is just like the prompt you are running at your terminal that allows you to type cd and ls.
